# ListElixr Subscribe Form

This is a widget that allows clients to embed a form on their website to automatically create subscriptions in ListElxir. The OAuth access token must be generated by an administrator. Once the access token has been generated, copy/paste the JavaScript code. This plugin is highly customizable, so the form can look however you desire.

## Access Tokens

Each access token is scoped to a catalog id. This ensures users can only be subscribed to a predetermined catalog, and can never be determined by the request body. To generate an access token, you must know the CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET of the ListElixr Client Credentials Grant.

Run the following command on the Elxir server. Be sure to replace `CLIENT_ID` `CLIENT_SECRET` AND `CATALOG_ID` with the actual values. The scope `client-api` is also required.

```bash
php artisan passport:client:access-token
    --id=CLIENT_ID
    --secret=CLIENT_SECRET
    --scope="catalog-CATALOG_ID client-api"
```

#### Variables

`CLIENT_ID` is the OAuth Client ID. \
`CLIENT_SECRET` is the `secret` value for the given `CLIENT_ID` \
`CATALOG_ID` is the id of the catalog you wish to subscribe users.

## Basic Usage

The order of the fields determine the order they appear in the form. The url of package can specify a version just like NPM.

`https://unpkg.com/listelixr-js@VERSION/dist/ListElixr.umd.cjs`

and where `VERSION` is, it could be various formats such as `^1.0` `~1.0` `1.0.5`. It's best to lock into a hard version on client sites because that version will work indefinitely and updates wont impact it.


```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/listelixr-js@1.0.0-beta.4/dist/ListElixr.umd.cjs"></script>

<script>
var el = document.querySelector('#foo')
var key = 'the-access-token-goes-here';

ListElixr.subscribeForm(el, {
    key: key,
    tags: ['foo', 'bar'], // optional
    source: 'XXXXX', // optional
    channel: 'YYYYY', // optional
    fields: ['email', 'first', 'last']
})
</script>

```

### Available Fields

The following are the standard fields:

`email`,  `first`, `last`, `street`, `city`, `state`, `zip`, and `phone`.

Should you need to provide custom html structure for the fields, you may also pass an `HTMLElement` that contains an input field with one of the accepted field names.

## Customizeable Themes

The following will override the default theme. You could create an entirely new theme, override as much or as little as you want, but this example just shows how to override the submit button color.

Note, the theme is automatically vendor prefixed to prevent the styles from the site overriding those in the plugin. Should you run into style conflicts, you could use this same method to fix the issue.

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/listelixr-js@1.0.0-beta.4/dist/ListElixr.umd.cjs"></script>

<script>
var el = document.querySelector('#foo')
var key = 'the-access-token-goes-here';
var theme = ListElixr.defaultTheme

theme.merge({
    'button': {
        backgroundColor: 'red',

        '&:active': {
            background: 'darkred,'
        },

        '&:focus': {
            boxShadow: '0px 0px 0px 3px rgb(255, 0, 0, .5)',
        }
    }
});

ListElixr.form(el, {
    key: key,
    theme: theme,
    fields: ['email', 'first', 'last']
})
</script>
```